Thank you very much everyone, thank you very much everyone, and thank you again for participating
and making time and be told with the practice of thank you again. Thank you very much. Again we're
going to extend a reactivity of great motivation or great intention, such as joy and appreciation,
and then vastness, motivation of the Buddha, and purity, motivation of the realization
of the S Vaidyana teaching, often taught us and all the great masters, the teachings are always
reminding us those so please reactivate those, and with those, we illuminate, light up, and
we put the switch on of all our good motivation, and with that clay light status, we follow the
words of the teaching of Buddha Chaturmani, as well as the deity masters, and this time,
we're following the teachings and instructions of the great Japji, the New Room, which is his
teaching, so again, of course, you know, basically, whenever you already know, so I participate in
all
that, and now again, so I'll just go over that, and we've been told that we divided, or I divided,
that into three groups, and the beginning novel, and the middle novel, and the concluding novel,
all in it, is known as tambassum, so we kind of put that in that frame. The reason I'm putting that
,
and I make it so many times, because we like to, our practice becomes so practical, and so
and progressive, and also the practice we like to become as whole part of the practice,
whole, whole practices, not just a kind of piece of practices, so we like to make this calling,
calling as college, college practices, and to do the college practices, or some authentic,
good practices, then in the teaching, measure these three novels, what three tambassum,
tambassum is so important, and it makes everything, then novel, novel, and it elevated our self
from
the impurity, or in-noble status, to the normal status, so therefore, this is again, very important
.
In that frame, as we talked first, this novel is the motivation, again, we said so many times,
one after another, and I mention those again and again, so for this motivation, which is
so important, and that motivation, or that intention, what we like about our self, we're
going to keep continuing that on our, the principal part of the practice, second motivation, or
second
number, we're going to keep, not just only the second number, we're going to, that move to the
third number, the concluding status, even though it's a slightly different kind of like,
highlighted aspect of the practices and nobility, but reality is basically the same,
we're touching to our goal of true nature, our own being, our own nature, that started from the
original or beginning status, never diluted, never obscured, that authenticness we like to reveal,
so this to reveal that this, this number, this three novel, is that's the way, so now, I go over
with the personal novel, I mentioned already, and there's nothing, I mean, there's many things to
say
still, but I will go to the second one, second one is then, in the recording, the bodhicata level,
it is actualizing bodhicata, actualizing bodhicata, and actualizing bodhicata, or from the
motivation, tell all this final company, this tampa song, if I use another terminology,
that great teacher would highlight at the very beginning of the teaching, the four novel truths.
Among the four novel truths, this tampa song, three novel, is following the part truth,
this is part truth, absolutely perfect part truth, that is, we are preparing and advancing and
moving and developing our pure nature, and reversing the old habit pattern that leads us in the s
amsara,
through the big list, we're reversing or we're transforming, we're transmuting that,
therefore, this is really so important, this, this part truth is so important to get enlightenment,
or as great teacher Buddha said, cessation truth, cessation truth is not going to come by itself,
it is going to depend on the cause and conditions, that cessation truth, the cause and conditions,
also we're going to invite the cause and the conditions according the result of the cessation,
cessation means what, I think I said many times and you all know, cessation means something ceased,
something finished, what ceased, obscurations ceased, negativity is ceased,
the old habit pattern is ceased, when that ceased, when that finished, what we're
revealing, the old in the nature, that is enlightenment, Buddhahold, that we're revealing,
but that Buddhahold is not just going to come, boom, as like suddenly going to a pivot,
that light, that Buddhahold begins right when we enter part truth,
right, until, when we enter, when we pursue the part truth, the illumination, light,
it begins right then, and as we continue to pursue, as we continue to keep our courage and
commitment,
that light becomes brighter and wider, stronger and stronger, and that is known as at once in the
light, or at once in the path, at once in the boomies, therefore the greatest teacher,
divided all those, our development of the inner, inner realizations are lined up as pipe path,
ten boomies, this is pipe path and ten boomies, not just externally existing, it is at once,
as it is developing our realizations, also when when Buddha had kind of clarified all those so
perfectly beautifully, when we add once in each time, it will bring more joy, more confidence,
more commitment, more loving kindness, more compassion, more openness, more simple,
more humble, more kinder ones, soft heart, all those brings, just growing, growing, growing,
and developing, developing, then expanded beyond any borders, beyond any horizons,
that is enlightened, until that the light continually will usher us, that in the light,
energy progress will continually usher us, the path of the joy, therefore both each other,
both the south of the path are known as path of the joy, from the joy, from the joy,
moving to the joy, more joy, more happiness, more peaceful, more courage, more commitment,
more openness, more kind of negative emotions are going away, one after another, or it's getting
less and less, and that's really how, for that reason, the devant robots in the teaching said,
from the joy to the happiness places, from that place, moving forward with the happiness and joy
in the peaceful, at once, therefore, God's God, great Bodhisattva, is never going to feel leadiness
and bored by the practices, because it brings joy, peace, happiness, fulfilling the wish to benefit
for all living beings, and fulfilling the wish of your own self, or your purpose, purpose to one's
own self, purpose to other's own, it is what is commonly called in the West, we say win-win,
truly win-win, it is a win-win-win situation, win-win news, from when we pursue that,
that is really win-win, truly, this win-win is not just for a few months, a few years,
in this life, this goes on and on, life after life, peaceful, peaceful, one after another,
therefore, it is so special, so for that reason, again, I go now, I'm going to talk about this
actualizing Bodhisattva, actualizing Bodhisattva is a conduct of the Bodhisattvas, once you have
the beautiful motivation of the, or intention of the wishing Bodhisattva, now you begin to
activating that, not just only mental state, activating through the verbal, through the
physical, you begin to activate it, according your capabilities, according readiness for others,
as I said quite a few times, and with peaceful men, with polite men, with courage and commitment,
state courage and commitment, state, state past as the mountain, strong and deep as ocean,
open as sky in the teaching center, that's what we move on with humble, simple, huh, and peaceful,
we add muscle, so that the activity of the Bodhisattva is in the teaching center, it's
numerous, like ocean, it's numerous beneficial activities, but all numbers of ocean lengths
activated, beneficial activities of the Bodhisattva, summarize into these six paramatas,
pargaresh, chicha, buddha, shaktamans, summarize into these six paramatas.
Six paramatas in the Tibetan world is parvartu cimba, and in Sanskrit is paramata,
and in English, I think it translated transcendental, transcendental westerns or transcendentals.
What would be the part in the Tibetan, for example, parvartu cimba? Parva means other shows,
sambam is going or lifting up to the other shows, what other shows? Other show is show of the
beyond
dualities, all other show is beyond the noblities, novels, that indicating this show where we are
is
noble, not noble. It is not noble. Where we are is samsara, samsara, full of coyotes,
full of difficulties, in troubles, so from that bone we are elevating our self to nobility,
pre-from the negative emotions, pre-from the karma. That is what we are being, is parvartu, parvart
u.
And the cimba, actually in the teachings of paramata, is beyond the conceptions, so that means
no attachment, no grasping, no cleanings, going through other shows. That is really meaning of the
world meaning of the paramatas. And there is six paramatas, and that which is, again,
it is paramatas are the practices. It is what we are going to practice or what the bodhisattva is
practicing. Every paramata is best upon both each other. Now again, if I say more clearly,
every paramata is best upon whole worldness. On another world, every paramata is best upon
compassion,
compassion. On another world, sambhuludra, every paramata is best upon good heart. It's a good
heart. So if I use good heart, so when we do the generosity practice, it's best upon good heart.
Morality is best upon good heart. And patience is best upon good heart. And then joyful effort,
concentrations, wisdom, all compassion is absolutely best upon compassion.
That compassion is how much, how big, that you remember, we used to, I mean, not just we are
talking that, boundless. It's best upon the boundless, boundless compassion. So our
generosity practice is best upon the poor, boundless. Our morality is the best practice,
is the best upon poor, boundless. And so forth, one after another. All is the best upon poor,
boundless. Again, sambhul said in the teachings, compassion, that's it. Compassion and wisdom is
best upon compassion and wisdom of the great emptiness. That is what really these paramatas.
Now, these paramatas, as you all know, we all know, we all know, we all heard this
terminology many times, as we know, the six paramatas. As I said, six paramatas are the practices.
Practice what we're going to practice. We're going to practice that both in the post meditation
and meditation states. It's not just only one time, one sight. We're going to practice this
continuation and the both state of the post in and in meditation or practicing states.
So therefore, all practices of the greatness teacher, Bhadakhya Chaitanya,
summarize into three extraordinary tenings. Three extraordinary tenings. Those are known as
lappaasanas. Only a few weeks ago, when we were discussing about the Buddha's teaching,
the secretarial and the realization of the practices. Secretarial are three
basket teachings. And the realization of the practice are three extraordinary trainings.
That's what we discussed. So now this time is a practice. So this is the three extraordinary
trainings. Or in it a bit, lappaasana. That's what is lappaasana. And that is again, of course,
you remember that. One or three extraordinary practices or trainings is extraordinary training
of the moralities. Extraordinary training of the concentrations. Extraordinary training of the
worship. Those are the three practices. The entire Buddha teaching is summarized, or teaching of
the
practice is summarized into these three. That is, doesn't matter whether it is teachings of the
Punditian Buddhist school teachings or his own Dalai Lama using as a Pali language or Pali
best upon the Buddhism teachings and Sanskrit best upon the Buddhist teachings or the Vedayana
teachings. All is best about these three extraordinary training teachings or extraordinary
practices. So first is, if I use symbol, which are the moralities. And the second is concentrations
.
Third is questions. So now how these six parameters are summarized into these three extraordinary
teachings or practices. First three, what is that? I'm sure you remember.
First three is generositys, morality practices, patient practices. Ah, first three of the six
paramatas. They are, if we summarize that into that three practices, they are the morality
practices.
It is the morality teachings, ethics, morality teachings. And the fifth paramana of the six
paramana is what? Concentrations. That is the concentrated extraordinary practices. That is,
last one of the six is wisdom. That is wisdom practices. So now we completed five paramatas
into three practices. Then one of the, one of them we're missing, we said five. One of them,
that is joyful effort. Joyful effort support to all of those three. Joyful effort is the principle
support and yeah, support of the morality. Joyful effort is principle support of the concentrations
or the meditation. Joyful effort is the principle support of the westerns. That's how it is.
Three extraordinary practices. Then these practices, when you practice of these six paramata
practices,
what is we developing? What is happening when we practice that? Of course, we all know
it is brain realization, understanding. And deep in our practices, deep in our understanding,
knowledge in muslims. But also in the teaching making, I mean that is true that is, but in the
teaching making, it was increasing the two merits. Two merits. We often heard two merits. Those two
merits are accumulation merit, western merits. That is one. That is what is accumulation merit
and western merits. So now these six paramata practices, it will bring them or increase the
two merits. Accumulation merit and western merits. What is accumulation merit? Accumulation merit
is
in the teaching, it is available. The merit is something that you can perceive. You can function
something to the mental stages or physically wobble. That is namjhi sonam jitsu. Namjhi,
that is merit. Accumulation merit. Wisdom merit is something that you cannot
perceive in tangible ways. It's like beyond the conceptions, beyond the worrying, beyond the levels
.
But yet you will experience with your own pristine cognition awareness. That is
western merits. So these six paramatas, fourth true, generous practices and morality practices
is the principle, cause and condition to activate the accumulation merits. Accumulation merits.
Last one. Last one, western paramata or western paramata is then the western merits.
The merit that we cannot be focused, we cannot hold beyond the conceptions. That merit is westerns.
One has all other threes. They are in the teaching saying all those are the support to both merits.
What that all means now, that means patient, that means joyful effort, that means concentrations.
Those all three are going to support to increase or activate the increasing of the two merits.
Winter merits are increasing. If I use terminology merit may be as the energy or vitality of the
inner strength. When it's developing, what we put it by? What we cleaning? At the same time as it
comes, at its growth, we cleanse two obscurations. Emotion obscurations, knowledge obscurations,
we put it by according, we put it by. So therefore, these six paramata practices so, so, so special
and powerful, that encompasses entire practice of the sutra mahayana and vediana mahayana's
teachings.
It is really powerful and it is best upon, as I said already many times, best upon this, the
poor, boneless, all poor, boneless, and when yesterday we start talking about the equality,
tungni, and others are more important than the once on sub. That principle, that compassion,
that kindness, that willingness is best upon all that principles. Therefore, it is so powerful,
so special, spacious. It is so authentic and it is so organic. There is no condensation of
self-importance and self-centered minds. Therefore, it will defeat all negativities,
it will defeat the ego clings. We bring true realization of the ego-ness status,
ego-less status, and we will bring true realization of everything as a great emptiness,
emptiness, and apparent union of the great emptiness. That what's called in teaching is
individually ego-ness status and a predominant ego-less status. Truly, it will bring that
realization. How are we developing that? In the course of those two ego-less realization or that
intellectual theory is generally developing through the learning from receiving the teaching
and contemplate on that, then in the teaching said it will bring that kind of glimpse of the
view or idea. It really will bring that realization. And then that also kind of as the Buddha said,
as Nagarjuna's and all those great masters said, and you put also your intelligence
and you have and then you see all these phenomenal existence are as task-lucid states or as magics.
There's no substantial solid existing, one particles. All is lucid. All is just completely
combination. And there's nothing that you can find one solid existence anywhere in this world
and beyond the world or anywhere in the subject level, in the object level. When he has said that
theory that realization that according Buddhism that is a perfect theory, perfect is line of the
true desire. What is not perfect? Clinging as solid. Solid. Clinging on such existing solid
existing.
That is just mental clingings. In reality, there's nothing is existence. It's all
as compromises are exploring or explore. That's the way. But in the Buddha teaching, I think it's
going even further more steps than the quantum physics. There's nothing existing both subject
level and object levels. Same humans. But yet all is arising. Why? It's a circumstance, a
combination
of the cause and conditions arising magically and then functioning magically in the magic world
or functioning as a dream world as it is perfect dreams, even though it's not existing solids.
And our notion is always living, kind of always evolving something that even though it's really
not existing. For example, what now? What is the month now? It's May. This May. We think May is
kind of truly existing. But where is May? The day one we started May until the end of the May.
Where is that May? May, have you started thinking of that? Each particle of the times or the
moments
is chain of the moments. Even moment that there's nothing exists is solid according Buddhism.
It's just a conceptually nominated, that change. Then hold onto that.
And that is our samsara duality mind clinging to everything like that.
Everything clinging, even though it's not existing. Since it's not existing, it's
illusion display, therefore it's changing, properly changing. One up another is changing. Not
changing
or the original level is changing, but instantly level changing according to the teaching. Even
though maybe we don't, maybe we don't detect that, we never notice that reality is changing every
second. Moving from where? To where? It's from that display of the illusions,
from the emptiness. Moving in the emptiness, going to the emptiness, is all show of the
great, the openness or emptiness and vastness. Therefore, one in the teaching said, or as I said,
the second novelty with all focus, with all grasping. All this, our meditation, realization,
is also magic. There's nothing to hold, nothing to grasp. But as we follow this magic, we think
we are suffering with magic, magic suffering works. In a way, magic of the ocean, ocean,
and it serve the purpose to the magic beings. It do works. That's a system known as interdependent
coordination systems. So therefore, everything is like that status. So as we practice the sixth
parameter, then it increases the understanding of realization. When we reach it, according to the
teaching, when we reach to the post-bumi, that time, then your realization will come exactly as
you meditate. And as I said earlier, in the post-part, we will understand theoretical accumulation
part,
this realization comes as theory, as kind of intellectual theories. But then in the second
part, application part, it will come as kind of more experience. Now getting a little more sense.
And then in the third-bumi, or third part, same part, you're going to see exactly as it is true
nature. When you see this true nature, it's not going to change anything except the perspective
of the perspective of the knowledge. And our grasping is shifted, or it is kind of disappearing.
But here, otherwise, everything is going to function. Exactly the same thing with this time,
even better, more fancy, more sophisticated, more stronger, more deeper, more effective force.
You know the mysteries of the way the nature is. Again, and then you begin to really see them. You
can play the dynamic display of these. And there were those great masters sitting on the sky,
walking through the walls, walls, dust forming fire into the water, water into the fire.
Those are loosely truths, kind of like stories, those are like stories. It's not, it really can
happen.
When you have the power over the mind, and then it comes to power over the matters,
matters, it changes, shifting things. That's true evidence. Even, for example, material power,
how much change by the scientific? Scientists, how much change? When you power,
power becomes our mind. When you power over our own mind, or according to the teaching,
it really will become, you will become the master of the materials. Masters, they have ancient time
in the teachings, they have many great masters. One changes to the many, many changes to the ones.
And also, in Christianity story, the days of Christ say, dust form, one bread, one lot of bread,
so many breads, one bowl of the beard, man feeds so many beings. That is true. When you become the
power over the materials, you change. Nature is open, nature is flexible. We see how things
happen even in the material world by the scientists. That shows the glimpse of the window of the
mystery of the natures of beauty and their openness and their flexible states. So therefore,
this practice of the Sikh Parama, the practice, will bring realization and defeat all the obstacles
,
bring joy and peace, happiness to every living being without any discrimination. That is the
beauty of the bodhicitta and the bodhicitta activities. Now, I go back again to the Sikh
Parama a little bit and continue to go over this. Now, the Sikh Parama, generally in the teaching
sense, this order of the Sikh Parama, first is generosity, then the moralities, then the patience,
then the joy of effort, then the concentration, then the resistance. Why in these orders? Because
if this order, because first is easier than the second. Second is more easy than third. Third is
more easy than the fourth. Fourth is more easy than fifth. Fifth is then the final one's death.
So therefore, generosity is easy. Everybody can do some duty, generosity, but morality is difficult
.
That is difficult to compare with generosity. And then morality is a little more easy than the
patience. Patience is difficult. Difficult. But when the patience, then joy of effort is, again,
a little more difficult than the patience to keep continuing. Maybe we can do one patience, one
time,
two times, three times, but joy of effort means continuous. That is quite difficult. Then the
concentration is difficult. Even everything is perfect and beautiful and nice. We can see
ourselves too. Our mind is not stable. No matter whatever we do, really restless always. Even
everything is quiet and peaceful. This monkey mind thinks something and makes it distracted.
And therefore, again, so that wisdom is more difficult or more finer than the concentration.
So therefore, it is completely kind of, that's why Buddha made that order. So I called him,
the original teacher, the Buddha Shakyam, and his teachings are accordingly cover-billed of them.
Cover-billed with the individualist, he showed path. Never post and never do, but skillfully
leading to the path, to the ultimate goal of the realization as we can happen. And so that with
that
understanding and that six paramatas are lined up in that six, six levels. And that is my brief
talk about the reaching, actualizing both each other. And then again, we go there more and
continually. I'm talking, the talking always, maybe you all kind of feel very strong all the time,
both each other and reaching both each other and actualizing both each other. Those are kind of
going almost like exactly going in the like, what's called the land in the Midwest and Texas and
all
those things. There's no synergies and no, there's just a continually going, same thing, kind of
like
same, almost the same thing. You see the horizon, you see the flat land, but there's nothing really
happening. Maybe you're thinking that, but I think they're attaching to the really core of the best
of the teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni. And that's how we really develop it. And we're doing
that according our capabilities, our capabilities, following the light of the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni, his own Dalai Lama, all of the great masters. So we are really activating
all this healing retreat as nicely, building up from the best and then gradually then we go to the
very other teaching and in the teaching making that too. So thank you very much everyone.
Thank you.